>> Eric: We're going to record
and it's recording, obviously.
So first things first.
Welcome for this
Github training session.
We try to make some
progress using Github.
There are people from two
working groups here,
so a lot of people
from the WCAG working group and
also people from the Education
and Outreach Working Group
and I'm happy that we get both
groups together and
in this session.
I think that's really neat.
So, yeah, let's get
this started.
So it's basically
an introduction.
I didn't want to go into very
deep of the details of
how Git or Github works.
We will be going into more
details with Github, but I
want to make it very practical
so you can so basically showing
the stuff, that it's important
to you working with that stuff.
If you've got any questions,
you can always raise your hand
and in the queue using the the
IRC channel, it's #github
on the W3C IRC channel
and if you haven't haven't
checked in there, you should.
But you can always ask me
questions and I will try to get
to them as soon as possible.
So one important note, of course
different editors have different
preferences for using Github
and we we probably have edge
cases where other
people think differently
than I do, which
is pretty normal.
So if you if you see things that
that differ, this is
not a definitive guide.
It's a rough red line on where
to yeah, on basically on what
best practices are and how
to use it and there might be
other cases where people
advise you otherwise.
So who joined as call in user 2?
>>> Hi, this is Mo
>> Hi, Erica.
>> Hi, Mo.
>> And, sorry, this is
Howard, I just joined, also.
[Multiple voices]
>> This is Tim Bolin,
I just joined.
>> Hi.
>> A lot of people of both
groups are showing up
and I really like that.
So, yeah. So there are obviously
differences between the project
and I will bring in my things
that I have learned doing the
education and outreach stuff
in the last two years and
and just just talking through
and have have education
and outreach things
as examples as well.
But...but it's a plan to draw
from all of the repository,
it's not that different.
So basically what Github stuff,
contributions are welcome.
So you can really work with us
together on the deliverables
where before it was mainly a
one way thing that was done.
But now it's much more
attractive and we can we
want those contributions,
they make working together much
more easy and help to really
make the work a little bit more
smooth, at least that's
what we hope that it does.
Of course, no promises here.
So first things first.
A little bit of background
stuff.
What is Git?
Git is the distributed revision
control system with an emphasis
on speed, data integrity,
and support for distributed,
non linear workflows.
And if you all are participants
in W3C working groups,
you know that a lot
that we do is very distributed.
Non linear.
So it seems like a
good fit for us to use.
Just basically you will get into
what is the version control
system, basically it keeps track
of changes in the project.
So if you add a new page, if you
create a page, this
is recorded and then
and also the changes
are reported.
Every file that's in there is
reported recorded and so you get
like a nice track of
how things work out.
That you can basically have on
the time line and
you can go back
in the version control system
and get to previous
versions, which is useful.
So that's one thing that
we can use this for.
A repository that's basically
the thing that stores
all versions
and the associated
metadata for the project.
So every version you create is
stored in there, every
dif is stored in there
and everything is
stored in there as well.
Which is really neat.
And as Git is distributed, you
have got basically two
versions of those repositories.
One is a remote repository and
the other one is a
local repository.
So when you...
most version control systems
like subversion or CVS -
they've got central server
changes recorded.
So when your computer is not
connected to the internet,
it's basically you you don't
have any access to previous
versions and stuff like that.
Git is different.
So every computer has a
complete copy of the repository,
the online repository
on the hard disk.
And so you can work without an
internet connection, without
your server needed to be up,
you can just copy and paste the
whole repository into another
folder and it will just work.
It's very versatile.
And then you can say, okay, and
now I will push those changes
back to the remote repository,
which in our case is on Github.
Because it's it has other
capabilities as well.
So that's basically a recent
feature of Git, by using Github
and having the central
repository there.
Then there are commits.
Commits are basically small sets
of changes that you that you
submit to the repository.
They create new versions
of the committed files.
And you can always add a commit
message to describe
what you've changed.
So if you change a for example,
you could write up that
you've changed the heading
and what the reasons
for this are.
That makes it really easy to
find who changed
what, obviously.
But also if there is if there's
some discussion around some
wording or some change,
you can go back and actually
look when was it changed
and have there been reasons
for it to be changed.
So it's so it basically records
that as well, and that is
really neat so you don't need
to to reiterate over specific
issues again and again.
So it's important to write
up good commit messages.
Then there are branches.
And those are that's
not an easy concept.
But basically, it means as those
repositories are so independent
from each other, you can even
in those repositories
have independent branches.
That means you get you basically
have a copy of your project
in the project that
has different data.
So if I decide I want to change
the design and someone else
is changing the content,
we basically could both branch
this, a repository, and I
could work on the design
and the other person could work
on the content, and we
wouldn't have conflicts
and things overwriting each
other and then when we're done,
individually, we could bring
that branch back into the main
branch, the master branch,
that has all has the final
repository, basically.
So so that's incredibly useful.
And Github also encourages
Github also encourages
the use of branches.
They are easy to
create, easy to do.
You can concentrate on one
change and bring that back
in to the to the main branch.
And it really helps to avoid
collisions from multiple
editors.
So if you got 15 minutes and you
want to learn Git on the command
line, which is interesting
because it's it's really a good
way to get into the
mood and think
about those individual terms
and get the draft for that.
You can do that.
Github has tryGit resource where
you can do that and
basically you can really
on this page simulate your Git
repository, you can Git status
and of course it's empty,
that's not surprising.
And if you then a file is added,
it's very good described on the
top and then you get the status
and you see it's
not committed yet.
It's untracked find.
And then you can add
this and so on and so on.
That's basically using the
command line to do that.
I can encourage you
to test this out.
I just you don't
need to do that now.
But I've just I'll paste the URL
into the IRC, because
I haven't added it
to the slides and here we go.
And, yeah, it's really
interesting to get
across on how it works.
It's very yeah, it's very basic,
but it brings over
those terms very well.
But, of course, there's no need
for using the command line.
There are lots of tools
that do that for you.
So this is the source tree.
It's for Mac or Windows and you
basically get those nice
colored graphs on the left
where you can yeah, where you
can see what your branches are.
So that's pretty neat.
It works very well.
And then there are tools from
Github that are a little
bit more user friendly
and that are basically used for
Github vernacular to
speak about stuff.
So it's a little bit easier to
use than using the standard
stuff or using the other tools
that are not so interconnected
with Github.
And that's also available
for the Mac and for the PC.
For Windows PCs, of course.
Now, that's been
the boring basics.
Now we're getting a little bit
more hands on, on to Github.
Because when you use Github, you
basically don't need to use
either the command line or one
of those software tools because
you can do most, if not
all of it, on Github.
And especially as someone who is
more in the contributor role,
that is probably all you need
and most certainly all you need.
So the Github is basically a GUI
for remote repositories, so
you have your remote repository
and then you can you can
work on that and edit that.
But it has also other features.
So it's it has also project
management integrations,
so it provides an issue
management solution, it has
a wiki, there are milestones
in there that we can use to keep
stuff on track and
that's pretty powerful.
And a lot of that is actually
more helpful than the
source code stuff in terms
of just using it and providing
it to to and providing feedback
for editors of deliverables.
So one thing is every every
delivery has its own
repository, so, for example,
we have the WAI tutorials
repository, the WAI
QuickStarts repository
and the WAI WCAG quickref
repository and basically the
Github.com/ and then the owner
of the repository, which is W3C
in that case, and then the slash
and the short time
of this repository.
And as you can see, we try to
prefix them with a dash because
there are a lot of repositories
in the WC3 [indiscernible] and
it's hard to have an overview
and sort them accordingly
if we don't do that.
So yeah it's pretty
straightforward so you
can basically find them
on the Github.com/WC3.
There is there is a large list
of of repositories, I don't
know how many we have,
but it's a lot.
And you can see when they have
in the last change of the one
with the last change
is always on the top.
And then you can also search for
it and as we have adopted
the WAI naming convention,
you can just go like WAI in the
[indiscernible] and then
actually they should display
immediately as you can see and
you get all of the WAI
stuff that we're working on
or have worked on,
which are a few.
So that's useful and that's
how you found repository.
You probably don't think
about a lot of stuff in there.
And, yeah, and we we do that and
it's for each repository each
delivery has its own repository.
Because it's much easier to
track issues and
feedback that way.
You can edit files
directly in Github.
So take a look at the tutorials.
Sorry. We will have a
look at the tutorials.
So we have here the source
folder and the index
file and this is written
in matone [[phonetic]] so
so it's pretty easy to use.
Other repositories might use
plain HTML and some might
have code spread all over,
so it's it's a bit different
from from resource to resource.
But I think you will get you
will find your way around.
So what we have here is the edit
this file button and so that's
the pen here on the right
and you can just get
in there and edit it.
If you have got edit rights, you
can even commit this
directly to the master branch,
which is not what I would would
recommend to do because that's
actually not what we should do.
And I will get back
to that in a minute.
Or you can have so called pull
requests and I will
talk about that later.
So yeah, that's that's basically
it and you can just
start to type
and make your changes
if you want.
And bring those in as a
proposal, which is useful.
So another thing that I wanted
to show is actually the main
page of those repositories.
This is the tutorial help page.
It has a lot of interesting
information on it, so
there's there's a link
to the actual deliverable, there
are the number of
commits on the top,
the branches that are there.
You can create releases in
Github or the editor can
do that, which is useful.
You can view a list
of the contributors.
And on the right, you've got
that navigation that shows
issues and pull requests
and wiki and some
specifics and stuff.
So that's what you have
everywhere and in the center,
basically, you've got file lists
and directory lists of the
files that are in there.
You can see how long your the
last edit is has
been and you will see
that that hasn't been going a
lot in the tutorials lately.
And then there is actually a
readme file, that readme file
that you can see here
in the file list.
So it's in the root, in the
root of that repository.
And it's [indiscernible] here
and it's a [indiscernible] file,
so you can use images and links
and texts and all
of that neat stuff.
So, that's one thing.
You can switch branches here, so
we have got three branches
in this repository.
The master is where
the work happens.
Release is where we merge in the
master branch once we
do another release.
And then we have the Github
pages branch, which is a metric
branch, if I can say that,
so I'll everything that's on the
Github pages is automatically
rendered HTML file automatically
rendered on the Github.io
subdomain.
So if I go into the Github pages
for this repository, and then
you see this automated commits
because of the use of the system
that creates HTML files from
yeah, basically from what we
from the mocked on files
[phonetic] that I've
shown you before,
and that's automatically
deployed to WC3.github.io/wai
tutorials.
And you can browse that just
like any other regular website,
which is incredibly useful
for testing out stuff and
showing stuff to to
people while developing it.
If you have only HTML stuff to
to to work on, for
your deliverable,
it's just plain HTML, you can
call it index.HTML, have
your main branch the Github
pages branch.
And then every time you make a
change, it will automatically
show up on that staging server,
that's incredibly useful.
So those are the branches.
A little neat trick that we
have in there is this button
on the right called
quickly jump between files.
When you click on that, you can
basically just put in a
file name that you like.
For example, I could type simple
and then I see all the files
where some kind of
simple is in there.
I can do images and I get all
all files that have
to do with images,
like the images index file.
I can click on that and
I'm directly in that file.
So when I know the file name of
the directory or something like
that, this really helps greatly.
And you can you can go to this
file find by pressing
T on every page,
so that's incredibly useful to
navigate around, if only I
wouldn't forget this possibility
all the time.
[Laughter].
So just pressing T and
you can just type that.
Really useful.
And that's basically it's
those are the the repositories.
I would come back to issues and
pull requests later, as I said,
because they play a much more
central role to what
we're doing in WC3
and to collect feedback
from you.
>> Do you have time
for a quick question?
>> Sure, always.
>> How do you publish to the
Github.io staging server?
>> Basically, you don't
have to do anything.
You just you just make sure that
you've got the Github
pages branch
and then everything that's in
there is automatically on the on
that Github.io station server.
>> So you need to create
a branch from the master?
>> Right. You'll need to create
a branch from the master
or what you can do,
if you only got HTML files in
there, you can just create
the branch Github pages
and delete the master and
automatically the Github pages
branch will be your your master
>> I see: Okay.
>> branch.
And then it's automatically
published when you
are doing that.
That's actually what I
do with the quick ref.
There we go.
So what we did with the quick
ref is that we get
only one branch,
that is called Github pages.
>> I see, okay.
>> And that's that's easy
to do in the settings.
You can and you see that there's
the Github pages box in there.
That has the link to the to the
resource online and also has a
lot of help articles and stuff
that help you get around.
You can use pure HTML or you can
use Jekyll, which is like
a static site generator,
which is what I use for the
quick reference at the moment.
And that basically gets passed
automatically when
something changes.
That's really, really neat.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Eric: Other questions so far?
Okay. Yeah, the questions the
question that is important
thinking about issues
and pull requests is
to when to use what.
If I just get back to the to the
tutorials, we got pull
requests, a few of those.
And those are those
look like this.
So they are basically there's a
conversation, there are
some commits attached
and there are some file changes,
but in realities they
are not that different
from regular issues which
basically look the same
and you but you don't have
that file stuff attached so you
have only comments from people
and then you can add labels
and I will get into
that in a minute.
You can assign people to a
[indiscernible] and also
add milestones to this,
which is really useful if you
say okay, we want to have
the both issues covered
until that date, so it's
more like a to do list.
That's that's really interesting
and then you've got a
back and forth discussion
until I have understood what
you're actually wanting
to give me feedback on.
Because that's that
sometimes just isn't clear.
So that's it.
And then it can basically
go forward.
I talked about labels a little
bit, so the to the tutorials
one is a little bit special.
Labels for every page.
But if we go into the quick
start guide, and
in those issues,
you see that there are
enhancement labels on there
and when you take a look
at the labels, you will see that
there are basically seven labels
and those are the standard
labels that Github provides,
so there's bug, duplicate,
enhancement, help wanted,
invalid, question and won't
fix that basically you can use
to highlight specific issues
and all pull requests.
Those are those issues lists and
pull requests lists,
they are sourcable,
they are incredibly flexible.
So so you can basically clear
all filters, which I don't know
why there have been filters,
and then you can go and
basically say, okay, I only want
to see everything that's that's
tagged with announcement
and you can do that.
Oops. What have I clicked now?
You see on the right who has
commented and how many
comments are in there,
so you see what is the
important topic for people.
That's pretty neat.
And you also can say, okay, I
want to see all closed issues.
All open issues.
And as you can see, in the
filters box, this is all
basically text based,
which is very, very neat so you
can you can if you
get along with that,
you can basically just write in
there and find the
correct issue.
That's not so much a problem
with the WC3 stuff,
as we don't have
like thousands of
issues at a time.
But it can be useful
nonetheless, if there are,
if the label had wanted
that basically asks for group
input, for example, you
want to first inform them
and then you can concentrate on
working on those specific issues
instead of thinking through,
like [indiscernible] or stuff
like that, that need to
be fixed that are issues,
but don't need any
further input.
Yeah, if if we click on pull
requests on the top, yeah,
basically the filter changes
from it's open and it's pull
request is pr from from
it's open and it's issue,
so they are really,
really closed related.
And so the question indeed is
when to use what,
when to use issues
and when to use pull requests.
So that's not that's actually,
once you think about
it, it's pretty easy.
But it's it gets some some time
to get used to that, to that
stuff, and when to use what.
So issues.
You should always just open an
issue if you have
general feedback,
if you want to discuss, like,
passages or documents and
you are not sure if you want
to reformulate it, but you don't
have a concrete change
to do on files.
Then you should use issues.
Also, if you just want to
collect opinions on on different
things, then you go in there
and you can open an issue
and talk about that.
And just keep keep that going
and that may result in something
that can be integrated.
There are some there are some
advice on how to
write good issues.
So you should always provide a
link to the page in question.
Sometimes pages are very
similar, if you have a multi
page deliverable at least,
so it really makes sense to
point people to the specific
page because, as it's easy
to get lost and it just confuses
the hell out of everybody
when they're not talking
about the same page.
So make sure that everyone is
on the same page, basically.
Keep issues clear, concise and
focused on the specific issue.
Bad: I don't like content of
Page X. That does
not help very much.
That's giving feedback like on
this page, the wording in
the introduction is unclear.
It's helping far more to to help
editing this and get feedback
from the other members
of the working group.
So that's really, really useful.
Try to be very specific and
point people to the correct
page that helps a lot.
Pull requests are for concrete
text and code proposals.
So if you say, oh, I can go in
there and change that
in a minute, go in there
and change it in a minute.
You don't need to make an issue
and discuss it discuss it.
You can just get into the file,
as I showed before, and
just make your changes
and send in a pull request.
That doesn't mean it will get
implemented one by
one like you did,
but at least you have a concrete
proposal, concrete
code or text proposal.
It's also useful for
implementing changes that
have already been discussed.
So if we got a phone conference
and the group decides
that a part
of the deliverable should
change, you can go in
there, make that change
and send in a pull request.
That is much easier than than
having an issue up and then
someone else is doing that.
Of course, you only should do
that if you and the
group have agreed
that you are responsible
for this.
Then there are typos
and grammar corrections.
There's usually not a lot of
a lot to discuss with those.
You can always just open the
file, change the code
or the text and send
that in as a pull request.
And, of course, some advice for
doing good pull requests
as well.
So make atomar changes.
Make changes that are so as
small as possible, as
small as they make sense.
For example, if you get a file
and there are multiple wording
changes that you want to do,
you would most likely change
them individually
and submit them
with multiple pull requests.
So that each of them can be
discussed and implemented
individually.
If you go through page and
basically working group
has decided that they want
to change a word from one word
to another because
it makes more sense
or there has been a sentence
that is on several pages,
then you can do that all
at once and that works as well.
Because we don't expect to
discuss every single
change individually
because it was already
discussed, so so it makes
more sense like this.
So there is Github workflow and
basically this catches
everything we talked about.
First, when working
you create a branch.
If you edit on Github and you
check the check box, this is
automatically done for you.
So if I go to see that, wai
tutorials, if you go to wai
tutorials and then to source
and then index, are and then,
for example, you
change this to hints,
you can then have your comment
in there so that actually
the second the second step.
Before the first, in one
approach, so you commit changes.
We're now doing that.
Changed wording for the better.
And then you will always have
the possibility to commit
directly to the master branch
if you have writings, writing
access and we plan we haven't
discussed that in depth yet,
at least in the education and
outreach working
group, we basically want
to give everyone writing access
as that enables you
to add things
like labels and issues yourself.
So basically what you can do is
just commit directly
to the master branch,
but you can always check
this and create a new branch
from this commit and
have a pull request.
So it makes a lot of things for
you that you that
would be three steps,
basically combines
them into one.
You can just leave that that
name as it is, it
doesn't matter too much.
Then you click propose file
change, and then you can add
labels to this file change
and assign if you want to.
You can assign me as the one who
does the work because in most
of the repositories I'm I'm
working with it's me anyway.
So you can assign that even and
then you can have
another comment
and create that pull request.
On the box you see your change
in the nice format so you know,
okay, that's my change and, yes,
I want to send in
a pull request.
Click on create pull request and
now the pull request is there.
And you will see some details.
So everyone who who now goes to
the page, to the pull request
page, sees that pull request,
and sees what the change is,
where the change
happened and that commit
and what files, what changed.
You can even edit this.
Which is important.
And I will get back to that.
And you can add comments
on that.
So, for example, you could
comment and say, "That's
a change for the worse."
And comment that.
And you could also
label that with invalid.
There we go.
Github records all of that, so
you see who is adding labels and
this is actually reflected live
if you would have opened that
same page, it would get pushed
to your browser immediately,
so it it's basically almost like
a live chatting thing,
if you want to,
if you are doing it
at the same time.
That's pretty interesting.
And you can get notifications
and stuff like that.
I will come back to that
in a minute, I think.
So, yeah, that's
very interesting.
And then if you if you have
writing possibilities, writing
access for this repository,
you can also merge
the pull request in.
Which will go automatically and
then basically it's
in the master branch.
We don't want to do that now,
but this pull request,
because it's a bit ridiculous,
you could edit the
file once more.
And find an example, if someone
had commented and said, "That's
a ridiculous change," you can go
in there and just write
another suggestion, for example.
You don't need to
change that specific bit.
You could change the
whole sentence and stuff.
Let's go with that for a moment.
And put other idea.
And this is now actually in the
yetil patch 1 branch, so
I can now directly commit
to this branch because it's
not in the master branch.
Or I could have a new branch and
add the pull request on
to the master branch.
So if there's an edit, I have
both possibilities which can
be used for now I want to add
to the pull request we are
already dealing with,
so I commit that change.
And now it changed from guidance
to information, directly.
In those two comments and as we
can see on the conversation
page of the pull request,
we see that this this
change is in there as well.
So you can basically add to this
branch and play with
wording until it's finished
and then you can merge merge it
back into the document itself.
And I think that's a really
powerful when thinking
about about when thinking
about deliverables, a lot
of possibilities there.
So getting back to
the slides for a bit.
Yeah. Then you do open a pull
request, I will just get
back to the first one.
Basically the menu is to create
a branch, commit changes to
that, open a pull request,
then you can chat about it,
discuss it and optionally
add more commits,
that's what I have just shown
and then you merge it together.
And that's basically
how the workflow works.
And what I see now is that I'm
on the end of my presentation,
but I have forgotten one slide.
Obviously.
That is pretty useful,
but I can't see it.
Just interesting.
Probably that got lost.
Let's see if I can recover that.
Or else I'll just
do it manually.
>> Probably in a
previous branch.
>> Eric: Yeah, probably.
[Laughter].
It's hard with those branches
to to keep up with everything.
Oh, I didn't I didn't
go down there.
Okay. That's that's interesting.
I skipped that whole section.
This happens.
So, yeah. I added stuff and
that's all kinds of file types
I wanted to talk more about.
So you can edit HTML, CSS/SASS,
JavaScript, and of course
back end stuff like PHP, Ruby,
python, and one thing that's
especially supported is
markdown and there is
that YAML frontmatter thing, if
you take a look at
the at the tutorials.
They use this on every page.
And that's the thing on the top
so basically metadata that
is added to individual pages.
It has this really nice view,
this tabular view
that's probably horrible
for screen readers to read,
especially because the
text representation
of it is so much nicer.
So the frontmatter is having
three dashes on the top and
then it's basically, yeah,
those intended lists that that
help you to manage your
stuff and uses the middle man
to render the HTML pages in the
end and I can access all of
those values from the page,
so I don't need to write
my footer on every page.
But, for example, the published
date is just taken from this
from this file and displayed
and also the title and
the navigation title.
So so that's useful.
And it has this preview
functionality that I showed.
I think the tabular
stuff is not that useful.
But but, of course, if you use
regular markdown or HTML,
that's actually rendered just
like it would be rendered on
an HTML page but, of course,
without the CSS and
JavaScript enabled.
And if you do fancy stuff, with
with such of with such CMS or
static file generator tools,
it doesn't understand
that as well.
So there are limitations, but in
the whole grand scheme
of things,
you get a pretty nice
representation of the
page you are working
on in those preview
[indiscernible] and just on the
on the individual pages of this.
Probably a few other interesting
things in here is that you've
got the switches on the top.
So you can take a look at the
raw file, which in this
case is just a text file.
And it's probably not that not
too interesting, but
it's like a raw file
and on a special subdomain you
can basically query
that through AJAX
or stuff like that
pretty easily.
So there could be
some use for that.
There's blame functionality.
Blame functionality you see
basically who has
edited which line.
So if you've got a typo on line
20, it's clear that Chari
has made the change.
And you can blame him, that's
why this is called
the blame view.
It's really neat to use that.
And, of course, you've got those
newer and older yeah,
indicators that are only color,
but but it's pretty interesting
that empty roles are
usually very old.
So that's the blame view and
then you've got the
history view.
And that's so you can see all
of the comments to this one page
and so basically you
can see how it evolved.
If you think about, oh, several
months ago I edited something
in there, and in that file
and now it's basically people
are discussing it, you can just
go in there and you can see all
of the and you can see all
of the changes that happened,
which is which is really
useful to check back.
The numbers on the right, those
hexadecimal numbers, those are
the the basically the commit
numbers, so every commit has has
one has one of those numbers so
they can reference them easily.
I see a Q. And sorry for
not seeing the Q earlier.
So, Katie?
>> Though I understand more than
50% of what you are saying, I
will still say that I'm confused
about and I've used Git and
Github and it that's the
whole point here to me,
it's incredibly complicated.
So can a simpler understanding
of commit to me seems
pretty clear.
You are committing
this to the server.
But the pull and the
what's the other one?
>> Eric: Branch?
>> Yes. The a branch I
understand that you are
pulling off a copy, right?
>> Eric: Yeah, basically, yes.
>> Then to put it
back, you commit it.
>> Eric: You merge it.
>> Merge it.
Okay. And how is that
different from a pull?
>> Eric: So good question.
So basically the work happens in
branches and branches are
like lanes on the highway.
If you want to do stuff
on another another branch,
you basically switch
the lane on the highway.
And edit in there and then when
you overtook the car in front
of you and have done your work,
you merge back into that lane,
into the center lane
in that case.
Which is quite a
[indiscernible] metaphor.
But so a branch is basically the
same it's the same repository,
but it is another
branch of work.
A pull request is proposing that
this branch is merged
into the main branch.
So what you do with the pull
request is that you say, "Hey,
maintainer of this repository,
please merge this and put this
into the master branch"
or your main work branch.
It can have any name.
So that's basically
how it works.
And that's the basic concept.
So you are you are singling out
some piece of work and then
you get that back into the mix
and you can do that as often as
you want, so it can have
multiple off both lanes and
and they can be merged inside of
each other, which is weird,
but that's a possibility.
And then they can be merged
back into the main branch.
So you can have pull requests
between branches of any kind.
I hope that made
>> How are the collisions
then prevented?
>> Eric: The collisions are
prevented, in that case,
that you can have very
specific branches.
So you don't prevent the
collision, but you you
basically make sure
that every edit has
its own playground.
Sorry. So so, if they did
branches just for editing for
this tutorial, for example,
or for this specific feature,
or just for the design.
Then everything gets committed
to this branch and, of course,
there could be conflict
in there.
But it's it's much less likely
that when you merge it back
that someone else did work
on the same branch as you did.
>> Eric, would it be safe to say
that the the most granular level
of the changes is a
line by line change?
So in that previous example when
you had, when you changed the
information from, I don't know,
yeah, those three things you
said worst, you know, better
and worse and to try this,
was it only that word that was
going to get merged back in or
was it the entire line of code
that that word belongs to
that goes back into the merge?
>> Eric: As far as I know, and
I'm not really sure, the
whole line gets merged.
But it has the some algorithms
that say, okay, this is
the thing that has changed.
So if if something else in
the line has changed as well.
It won't get overwritten.
>> So it will be say, "Hey,
listen everybody, we've
got to stop for a second,
we've got a collision
possibility here
because two people tried
to edit the exact same line and
different merges;"
is that right?
>> Eric: Usually
it works out well.
Sometimes there are collisions
and you need to basically
put them down
and edit it back together
manually, but I don't think
that's that's something
that should happen often and if
it happens, it shouldn't
be something you
as contributors worry about.
I think we as editors are
there to support you with that.
>> Okay.
>> Eric: Howard?
>> Yeah, I had a question, Eric.
I was, you know, we talked about
at the last meeting,
for instance,
updating the luminosity or color
contrast ratio tool
listing, tool resource.
Now, let's say I
wanted to work on that.
And I could I have would I pull
that into Github, let's say, you
know, I wanted to start working
on it and suggest changes and
have other people make changes.
Is there I'm sure I assume
there's an easy way to
just pull that into Github
and then work on it from there.
Can you tell me how to do that?
>> Eric: Yeah.
So for the people from WCAG
working group, I just
we had the discussion
in educational outreach on
Friday because we are preparing
both quick start guides
that basically helps people to
on ramp and track
the accessibility,
telling them what they need to
do, basically first
baby steps into stuff
and we reference the list of
color of of color ratio,
contrast ratio tools that is
in the in the techniques.
And some people noted that it's
outdated and now what
to do about that.
So I get into the WCAG
repository, and then
we take a look around.
So the WCAG group repository
basically it's one huge
collection of X amount
of files that, yeah,
that one could edit.
So if I get in there and into
techniques and then
into I think UA notes.
Um ... no.
I don't think that's it.
And then you get basically
confused and go back
and [Laughter] and
don't do anything.
So there are the techniques and
then I I have forgotten
which one that was.
I think it's CSS,
it's a general one.
I think general.
Yeah. And then you can
go into those XML files.
So I would just go into this
one, for example, there you've
got all of the descriptions
and stuff in there and it's a
very [indiscernible] XML formats
that some people understand.
You've got related techniques
and in the in the one
with the color contrast,
[indiscernible],
contrast ratio ...
ratio ... contrast
ratio, that's this one.
>> And I can send you the URL,
the page that I'm
specifically talking about.
The tools page, would
that be helpful?
>> Eric: Yeah.
>> Instead of looking for
it, I will put that in IRC.
>> Eric: Awesome.
Right. There we go.
It's an understanding yeah,
understanding even more
complex off the document,
so so that's why I wouldn't
advise you to edit
understanding correct
to directly it's visual audio
contrast, understanding,
then you've got the visual audio
contrast and [indiscernible].
So it should be somewhere
in there.
Yes, here are the resources.
So so that's all you can find us
and then it's got
basically like age ref things
where you could make
changes now.
So you could theoretically
edit this file.
>> I would want to would I want
to branch it first
before I did anything?
You know, I'm just
>> Eric: You could do that in
one step, so if you got on
the button create a new branch
and probably it says create a
new fork, which is the same
thing, don't get confused.
>> Oh, okay.
I'm confused.
[Laughter].
>> Eric: So if you don't have
writing access to
[indiscernible] it will fork it.
Forking is the same
thing as branching.
Only that it is in your account
and not in the account
of and not in the main
>> I see.
>> Eric: In the main repository.
So basically, if you download,
clone the repository on to
your computer, you are forking
that as well, but no one would
say would know it's like that.
So you can do that in one thing
and get a pull request and
you could change them out.
What you also can do, that
probably makes a bit more sense
in this case, is to just go
to issues and create
a new issue.
And write your suggestions
in there.
Then people can comment on it,
can contribute other
ideas to that,
can link other resources to it.
And then in the end, the editors
can say, okay, this is the list
of resources we want to add
to that technique, to that
understanding document, and they
can basically then compile the
list themselves and
put it in there.
So because it's a much more open
process, I think that's useful.
If you've got a concrete tool on
that list that is
broken, for example,
or the URL is not resolving
anymore, then you would go
in there and just deleting
that link and commenting that
this is not working anymore.
So you
>> Put in a new link
or whatever, yeah.
>> Eric: You could also put in a
new link and then people could
discuss the pull request,
as I said.
It's not that clear cut when to
use the pull request or
when to use an issue.
Basically for gathering of
information, I would
prefer an issue.
But in that case, it's basically
50/50, what to use and I think
the editors of WCAG are fine
with having having directly
a pull request in there.
>> Okay.
>> Eric: So, yeah, that's that
basically is the approach.
To find that, I will put the
link to the file into IRC
so you can just go
there and have a look.
If you want to.
Yeah, that's that's how she used
the the XML files and to get
through the WCAG repository,
which is huge and very
confusing, even for me, and
very XML, so so I have heard
that techniques that we're
thinking about moving the
techniques to a different system
so we can edit them more easily,
but I don't know if
that will also apply
to the understanding document.
>> Okay. That helped a lot.
Thanks.
>> Eric: Thank you, Howard.
So just getting back
to the slides.
Those were all of the file
types, so you saw XML is in
there as well and you got
that nice highlighting fun
stuff, it's really useful.
I have talked about issues and I
have talked about pull requests.
And as you see, those are the
slides that I skipped over.
I didn't do it in the in the
order I wanted, actually,
[Laughter], so ...
but we have talked about
everything that is interesting.
When you are doing pull requests
or issues, you have
some nice possibilities
to reference people and/or
issues and/or commits.
So when you're typing the
username, it's basically
like an "@" reply on Twitter
and that person gets a ping and
can can react to your
comment or your pull request.
That's really neat.
If you write #123, it will
automatically link to
issue 123 from this.
So you don't need to
search for the URL.
If you want to reference a
specific commit, I have
talked about the commit hash.
For example, 6F8BDDCO11
on one, C011.
Those are every commit has one
of those and you can also,
if you go into the history
of that file, you can copy and
paste that from the
right and if you look
at the main WCAG repository
thing, it's in there as well.
So so easy to access and then
you can say oh, I moved that
really, I don't really think
that this commit
is the right thing.
So if we go back to to the issue
I've created and in the
tutorials, the pull request
that I have created, then I have
the other idea and on
the right you'll see
that the hash is
there as well, also.
Although it's not
really easy to read.
But then you could say at the
person you want to
reference, I thought the change
in then copying or pasting in
the commit hash was better.
Then you can comment.
And so this links to the profile
and this links to
the to the change,
the change from guidance
to hints.
And that's very useful to speak
about stuff and get
this out correctly.
So that's something
that you can do.
Another thing that you can do is
that those those comment boxes
everywhere are supporting
markdown, as it says here.
So basically you've got other
things as well that you can do.
For example, you can have bold
and italic things in there,
you can have links in there
that don't that don't need
to be just plain text links.
Of course, plain text URLs work
as well and they get
converted to real anchors.
Then you can use lists.
So if you've got 1, 2, 3, or a
star or a bullet point or
dash as a bullet point,
those will be converted
into HTML.
It's super useful to write stuff
out, so if you're creating if
you're creating your commits,
use that to structure
your commits.
It can be really useful.
If you look into images, you
can, of course, reference images
from there, which
is nice as well.
You can use headings, if you've
got something that's really long
and probably then it's not an
issue, but more like
a like a long text,
so you can use all six headings,
structures, if you
would like to.
And you can use the the angle
bracket to have a
quote in there as well.
So, for example, that would be
useful if you discussed
something in in the meeting
and then this gets minuted and
then you want to reference those
minutes for what you're doing,
you can copy that over and
quote that, really useful.
It has code support, which is
probably not too surprising.
When we consider that it's it's
basically the code
[indiscernible] platform.
So so it uses [indiscernible]
like this to mark up end line
code and triple [indiscernible]
if it's like a block of code and
if you want you can also have
the triple back ticks on the top
and immediately follow it by the
language that is
used and then it has
like those need syntax
highlighting stuff,
are which is useful.
That's why I try to use
that as often as possible.
And then there are some extras,
you can have checklists in there
with complete and
incomplete items.
It's basically a list and then
you've got in square brackets
the the [indiscernible] space
on x that marks the completed
stuff and in your repository
you can check and uncheck that
and it gets automatically
saved, which is pretty nice.
And, of course, there are some
emojis that you can use
because what is a modern system
without any emojis.
And that you can use to
give more specific feedback.
I think it's very neat that we
can be so structured on things.
If you've got questions
left, I take them now.
And I or else I would pull up an
example I've yeah
prepared, in air quotes,
but I have made some changes to
the tutorials, which
come from issues
and I can basically fix those
issues now and I would
like to show that to you
as the next step in this
basically the last
thing we do today.
So any questions or is everyone
still only at 50%
of understanding?
>> I'm at 55.
[Laughter].
>> Eric: Oh, that's very good.
>> Eric, it seems like a lot of
the people that I
was speaking to,
at least on the mobile task
force, are using an
editor and, you know,
and going that way rather than
directly into Github itself.
Do you personally find yourself
using the the editor,
the interface,
the Github interface itself
rather than, you
know, a local editor?
>> Eric: Well, for
me it depends.
When I'm writing text, I'm
usually use my local editor
because I think it's
much more convenient.
And I like to think through
stuff and also with the with
the tutorials, for example,
those need to be regenerated
whenever I make a change and
I can have that run locally,
so I can see it all the time,
how stuff changes, that's
more convenient for me.
But basically, it
depends on the change.
If it's a quick change
I use the the Github
>> So are you using
SourceTree, also?
>> Eric: I actually use Tower
for Mac, it's a commercial tool.
But they are working
all the same.
They are not too much
differences between them.
It's more the user
interface stuff.
But, yeah, it's not that
different, once you got
the nomenclature right
and know what you are talking
about there, they're
pretty similar.
>> Yeah, the because there are a
few questions that
of course SourceTree,
just to make sure that, you
know, if you have a fork
going on and you're trying
to do a pull request, how do you
relate that fork to the master,
the original master
in that kind of thing?
It sounds like a 2.0
tutorial perhaps.
>> Eric: Yeah.
So the pull request thing is
something that is
basically a Github thing.
So you can't do that from
external tools apart from the
Github tools that they provide.
So if you want to use
[indiscernible] for
branching, not for branching
but for merging things back as a
pull request and just and
request a pull in the interface
for on Github, you basically
have to use Github
and do that online.
So I can show you
how that works.
So if we go into the tutorials.
Or I'll just go to the quick
start tips because it's not
not such a large tutorial.
Such a large repository.
So it's easier.
So we've got 11 branches
in there.
And most are most are put
in there how it should be.
So so if if I had changes now
and wanted to pull that into
it, I can use the the compare,
review and create
pull request button.
And then you see you can say
"I want the base branch."
That's basically
the master branch.
And then you compare, for
example, the you
have to attach one,
which probably is
way out of date.
There's nothing to compare
because I've already
put that in.
But if I fork this to my own own
thing and make a
change, for example,
deleting things in
there, just for
>> Yeah, I understand you.
>> Eric: And then the pull
request so I cannot commit
directly to my master branch.
Because that's local in my
thing and then it doesn't work.
That's interesting.
Oh, yeah, okay.
So um ... that worked
actually worked out.
Just a small hiccup.
And then then now I could I
could do the pull request and
the base is WC3 repository
and this is my repository.
And then I see that I'm able to
create a pull request
and that works
like like it usually would work.
So you click on create a pull
request and then you can add
your labels and your comment
and your stuff like that.
>> Okay. So on the left hand
side, when you say your base,
that's the one that you're going
to be comparing everything
else to?
>> Eric: Yes.
So the base is the repository
and branch, that that the
things are committed to.
And yeah, that's confusing.
And the the thing you are
currently working on, that
those are called hatch branch
and hatch fork, in that case.
>> So theoretically, I could
actually I could merge
a master branch into my
like if I changed something in
my master branch,
on the master branch
and then I had my own little
branch going on, I
could actually put
that into my branch using this
tool and the base
would be my branch
and the other one would be
the master branch, right?
>> Eric: Right.
So what we do with the tutorial,
we have that release
branch and into
that branch we always once we do
a release, we put our master
branch, we pull that in there,
that's not a pull request, per
se, because we can do
it just straightforward
and commit that to that.
And just merge them.
But yeah, you can do that.
Because when you think about
about problems or stuff and
you're working on your version
of it on your fork, so to speak,
of that, you are the one
who who makes progress
and then probably the source
repository makes progress as
well and you're out of sync.
And for those things that you
haven't worked on, you probably
want to pull in the changes
of that master branch so, yeah,
you can branch as
much as you like.
Basically.
And from which sides
basically that you want.
It's a pretty it's a pretty it's
a concept that's really, really
powerful, but as we know,
that comes with a lot of
responsibility, so, yeah, it's
it's there's a lot going on.
So any other questions?
Doesn't sound like it.
Okay. Then I just
I'll get this up.
So for the ah clicked
the wrong icon.
So for the tutorials, we've got
this this bug number
303 that was reported
as something that does not work.
And we also got another related
bug down here that
is this one, 85,
that that also was was reported.
And I have addressed it now.
So I will just switch to my to
Tower, I'm sharing
two applications,
how does that look like for you?
>> It's fine.
>> All we see is Tower, right?
>> Eric: So if I switch
to Safari, you see Safari.
>> We see that.
>> Eric: Oh, that's
interesting, that's useful.
So that's Tower and here
are the changes in the file.
And those as I said, those
things basically look the same
everywhere and you don't need
to to think about those
about those things.
You can always have the history
and see your your branches
and here, of course,
are our our branches that are on
the top, so if I
would change now
to the yetil patch 1
branch, I could do that.
I could check that out on my
computer and work on this idea
that I will most likely not use.
But but, yeah, there are a few
things in there and
then you'll see
when things are would collide,
basically you've
got more branches
and they are then merged into
each other and it's usually
no problem and the nice thing
with this, that's the particular
nice one, and and the nice
thing with with this client is
that it's very colorful thing
that that's the thing that I'm
enjoying the most out of this,
especially if it
works like that.
[Laughter].
You got you've got like really
interesting stuff so
that happens when you use
like really, really microscopic
changes and send
in pull requests
and then I merge them in, you
make me very happy because
my client is getting so,
so colorful.
So so but what I've done here is
basically I've changed
those things
and have some some
changes in there.
I will now mark them all as and
stage them all, that's basically
>> Eric?
>> Eric: Yes.
>> Excuse me, this
is Katie, one second.
What is the comparable
tool to Tower for Windows?
Is that Sparkle?
>> Eric: I don't know about
Sparkle, SourceTree is working
very well and the Github
for Windows is working
well as well.
>> I use Github for Windows, but
I don't think that's it gets
messed up with Windows 8
and it bothers me, so maybe
I need to use SourceTree.
>> Eric: Yeah, then you should
take a look at SourceTree.
>> Yes, SourceTree is what
everybody on the mobile
task force is using.
I just moved over to it.
I was on the Github
>> Okay, okay.
>> Eric: Yeah, SourceTree has
all of the nitty gritty
of Git built in there,
so the Github stuff, at least
they use the Github
wording and stuff.
But they are pretty much dumbed
down and don't expose like
the real power of Git.
So, yeah. That's that's so
SourceTree is quite
good for what it is.
So I've now staged that.
So that staging in that context
means that I mark it
that I want to commit it.
If I would have like multiple
files, I could choose to
only commit a few of them.
And even here on the right side,
in this line, I can only
stage a chunk of edits.
And then only this
will be committed.
For example, if I had reworked a
text and I want to have
multiple commits out of that,
because there were separate
issues, I could do that.
But that's not too
relevant in this context.
What I can do now is having my
commit message, it's
the same thing
that you can do on
Github itself.
Fix dropdown bugss.
You want to be at least a bit
precise and then I can
go and write fixes,
issue #185 and fixes #303.
And what's happened now is when
I commit that, nothing happens
because this is now only
on my computer and I will check
back to the Safari once I would
push that to the remote server.
So that's the other thing.
When you have a remote
repository and edit the
stuff on your computer,
you basically need to pull the
changes in and that's very
confusing with the pull requests
and I'm so sorry, but
that's how they named stuff.
But basically you pull stuff
down to your computer
and then you need
to push it up into the cloud.
And what we're doing now is we
will push this branch that has
the has the changes in there
and click on push and we want to
push that to this branch, to the
master branch and what happens
in Safari, instantly, once we do
that, is this this issue
that was referenced
in there is automatically closed
because I have fixed
our fixes #185.
It automatically detects that
and closes those box, which
of course is very useful
and you get on the bottom you
get the reference to to the
commit, so and you get the links
to the other issue, as well.
And you can basically look at
how what has changed
and stuff like that.
That's really useful, makes it
really easy to work
with that Github stuff.
And with the issues on Github.
So that's basically how to fix
things using Git and Github.
And I don't think I have a lot
more and it's going on
for quite some time.
So any questions,
closing questions?
>> I just want to thank you,
Eric, for putting the time in
and giving us this
intro into Github.
I think it's been very useful
and it gives you a
springboard to continue on with.
Thank you for your efforts and
your hard work in
setting up for this.
Of.
>> Eric: That's not a
question, but thank you.
[Laughter].
>> I have a question, but
it's not about Github really.
Do you say before that the
[indiscernible] will be moved
to another system, to
another repository?
>> Eric: Yeah, so that's pretty
much in discussion in WCAG.
So we WCAG working group thinks
about some possibilities and we
can follow up on that off line
and I can point you to
the relevant discussion.
There's nothing definitive on
there and they will
stay in that format
as they are for quite some time.
>> Okay. Thank you.
And thank you for
your presentation.
>> Eric: Thank you.
Okay.
>> Thanks, Eric, it
was really helpful.
>> Eric: I hope so.
I hope so.
I hope you all now understand
about 56% of [Laughter] of
what's going on in Github.
That is more than
I do understand.
So [Laughter].
It's it's very interesting and
it's very there's a
lot of stuff in there.
And the just getting practice
with those those issues and
things that have the most to get
to get to grips with this.
So, yeah, I think it's it will
hopefully help us to to work
a little bit more efficient
and directly on the deliverables
because I think that
will help a lot.
>> Thank you, Eric,
appreciate it.
>> Eric: Thank you very
much for attending this.
I will see if I get the video
out of and off the WebEx
somehow and post it on YouTube
or something like that for
the people who couldn't attend
because I think that's
really, really useful.
If you have got follow up
questions, I'll keep
the Github IRC channel
up for the next few
days at least.
Probably we will stay in there
forever and just approach
me and ask questions
and we can we can see
how to how to move along.
Thank you very much.
[End of webinar].